VAULT-19278 Static secret caching docs (#23621)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/agent-and-proxy/proxy/caching/index.mdx

  newly created tokens.
---

# Vault Proxy caching

> Vault Proxy caching allows client-side caching of responses containing newly

Reviewer: clarify this is for dynamic secrets?

Author: The following text should be clear enough, no?:
`responses containing newly created tokens and responses containing leased secrets generated off of these newly created tokens`

This describes the subset of dynamic secrets that we do support caching

Reviewer: I think just calling out explicitly that this is dynamic secrets makes things more clear, but this is fine for now.

  newly created tokens.
---

# Vault Proxy caching

Vault Proxy caching allows client-side caching of responses containing newly
created tokens and responses containing leased secrets generated off of these
newly created tokens. The renewals of the cached tokens and leases are also
managed by the proxy. Additionally, with `cache_static_secrets` set to `true`,
Vault Proxy [can be configured to cache KVv1 and KVv2 secrets][static-secret-caching].

-> **Note:** Vault Proxy caching works best with servers/clusters that are

> running on Vault 1.1 and above due to changes that were introduced

Author: Now that you mention it, I honestly think it might be a good idea to remove this section entirely. 1.1 was released in March 2019, isn't a supported version, and therefore I think this section probably doesn't need to exist any more. It's noise that isn't relevant to almost any customers. It'll still be in our old docs, though, so I feel safe removing it. I'm going to remove this note entirely.

   that are issued using the tokens managed by the proxy, will be cached and
   its renewals are taken care of.

## Static secret caching

> You can configure Vault Proxy to cache dynamic secrets and static, KVv1 and KVv2

Reviewer: "static (KVv1 and KVv2)"

Author: Good catch! Updated

secrets. When you enable caching for static secrets. Proxy keeps a cached entry
of the secret but only provides the cached response to requests made with tokens
that can access the secret. As a result, multiple requests to Vault Proxy for
the same KV secret only require a single, initial request to be forwarded to Vault.

> Static secret caching is disabled by default. To enable secret caching you must

Reviewer: "To enable caching for static secrets"

Author: Good catch! Updated

   that are issued using the tokens managed by the proxy, will be cached and
   its renewals are taken care of.

## Static secret caching

> Vault Proxy can be configured to cache KVv1 and KVv2 secrets as well as dynamic secrets described

Author: Good call, updating!

> Vault Proxy can be configured to cache KVv1 and KVv2 secrets as well as dynamic secrets described
> above. This means that, when enabled, subsequent requests to the same KV secret made via Proxy will
> only result in a single request made to Vault. Proxy will keep a single cache entry of the secret in its
> cache, and will only provide the cached response to requests made with tokens that can access the secret.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can configure Vault Proxy to cache dynamic secrets and static, KVv1 and KVv2
secrets. When you enable caching for static secrets. Proxy keeps a cached entry
of the secret but only provides the cached response to requests made with tokens
that can access the secret. As a result, multiple requests to Vault Proxy for
the same KV secret only require a single, initial request made to Vault.
```

Style correction: write in active voice, speak directly to the reader, avoid "this" as a pronoun

Author: Thanks! I slightly reworded the last sentence to hopefully be clearer:
initial request made to Vault
->
initial request to be forwarded to Vault

To hopefully make it clear that Proxy does the forwarding for you, and the client doesn't need to send the request to Vault itself

Author: I'll leave this un-resolved to give you a chance to review the updated wording -- let me know if you disagree and I can change it back :)

> This functionality off by default, as it requires [auto-auth](/vault/docs/agent-and-proxy/autoauth) to be configured,

Author: This has been overcome by events, as I've updated this section with Sarah's updated wording, resolving!

> This functionality off by default, as it requires [auto-auth](/vault/docs/agent-and-proxy/autoauth) to be configured,
> as well as the auto-auth token to have the permissions to subscribe to KV event updates via Vault's [event system](/vault/docs/concepts/events).
> Proxy uses the auto-auth token to connect to Vault's event system, and uses events to know when to update its cache
> with updated secrets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Static secret caching is disabled by default. To enable secret caching you must
configure [auto-auth](/vault/docs/agent-and-proxy/autoauth) and ensure the
auto-auth token has permission to subscribe to KV
[event](/vault/docs/concepts/events) updates.

Once configured, Proxy uses the auto-auth token to subscribe to KV events, and
monitors the subscription feed to know when to update the secrets in its cache.
```

Style correction: write in active voice, use declarative statements, avoid "this" as a pronoun

Author: Thank you! I'll update this :)

Refer to the [Vault Proxy Static Secret Caching][static-secret-caching] page for more information on

> this functionality.

Author: Thanks! Updated

## Cache evictions

> The eviction of cache entries pertaining to dynamic secrets will occur when the proxy

Reviewer: "Proxy" instead of "the proxy"?

## Request uniqueness

> In order to detect repeat requests and return cached responses, Proxy will need

Reviewer: "Proxy needs" instead of "Proxy will need"

## Configuration (`cache`)

The presence of the top level `cache` block in any way (including an empty `cache` block)  will enable the cache.
Note that either `cache_static_secrets` must be `true` and/or `disable_caching_dynamic_secrets` must

> be `false`, as otherwise the cache does nothing. The top level `cache` block has the following configuration entries:

Reviewer: ", otherwise the cache does nothing"

Author: Good catch! Updated

- `persist` `(object: optional)` - Configuration for the persistent cache.

> - `cache_static_secrets` `(bool: false)` - If set, Blah. Must TODO

Author: Oh no! Embarrassing haha! Good catch :D

> - `cache_static_secrets` `(bool: false)` - If set, Blah. Must TODO

Author: Fixed this, thanks!

> . Refer to the [Vault Proxy Static Secret Caching][static-secret-caching] page for more information on

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Refer to the [Vault Proxy Static Secret Caching][static-secret-caching] page for more information on
```

> this functionality.

Author: Thanks! Updated
